Hello again,

I explored this topic a wee bit more yesterday during my daily journaling and found some simple yet effective things
come from it.

Now to give a bit of context, this came from some self reflection. I properly started journaling in 2019. Now you
should totally journal regularly as it is so interesting looking back at how basic your thinking was back whenever you
wrote. I got this feeling. But it was combined with the feeling of satisfaction that I’d kept up some life habits I
needed to trust in order to get to where I wanted.

The title of this piece is the very start point of (maybe) something I want to build for others. I very much feel like
it could be something for people a few years behind me if that makes sense.

Sparked by good intention and elevated by COVID, these life habits don’t only make me a better person, but they have
given me insight into the simple and purer pleasures of life. Again, this is just a first piece. I intend on exploring
these deeper to look at the why and evolution of them over time. Nothing revolutionary, just realistic as ever.

By sharing my start point with you, I hope to inspire your own start point.

One very quick tip about habits that can change your life – the more consistent you are with them, the less you think
about them and the more they become who you are. This can work both ways.

Before I dive into them, take some introspective time to look at some life habits you yourself have built in this time
and think of the person it has made you. I like sharing my habits with my friends and discussing the journey of them.
It’s one of the spices of life.

WARNING – these may sound simple, but they are powerful.

No.1 – Exercise

Now I know a lot about exercise. It was my identity until I was probably 19. Everything I was and knew. But since then
and the ultimate failure of knowing you have to get a job (more thoughts on this another time), my experience with
exercise has been very much honed in to health than performance.

Log into instagram right now and search fitness. No wonder you feel inadequate. Every guru out there is trying to sell
you a dream. Don’t get me wrong; the right person, time and novelty of exercise might hook you in, but it won’t forever.

This is why I always come back to identity. Can you really see yourself becoming that HIIT person that goes to classes
twice a day (once at 6am, the second during your ‘lunch’ break). Or is it going to be a week of feel goodness.

Find. Your. Identity.

There are a lot of performance wannabes out there who end up starting the cycle again every few months.

See health wise, cycling for your commute is the best thing you can do for yourself.

See community and social wise, finding a club is the best thing you can do for yourself.

Find. Your. Thing.

No.2 – Write

The start of this piece and the whole essence of this piece brings me to this point.

Let’s be transparent here, we have never lived in an age where you can make such an impact through writing. All those
famous authors who have gone before us can be counted on our fingers. Nowadays, authors can become famous overnight.

This is not the point, it is hyperbole to describe the opportunity and freedom you have. Writing is not something to
gain from externally. It is a purely intrinsic activity. An act towards mastery. Mastery that no one person can give you
credit for. Only you.

To be even more direct about it, a life of regret is one worse than failure. Imagine never having written anything about
how or what you think. Or any of your experiences in life. Or about any of the dreams you hold or are most proud of.
These may not be known by many, but the few that may read it once your gone, you are responsible for giving them hope of
a life well lived.

The intangible product of writing is clarity. Not clarity for the reader. Clarity for you. Emptying and channelling the
nonsense from your life into a format of possible understanding. Alas trying to make sense of the world from your
perspective.

Your goal is not to write the next Harry Potter. Your goal is to clarify your life. Selfishly.

No. 3 – Meditate

This is a tough one. I’m reading more and more about it all the time. I’m doing more and more of it all the time. And
again it’s pretty immeasurable. Which is frustrating to write about.

You never reach an end goal here. You try it. You get better at it. You become more aware. You catch yourself not
meditating and try to focus on your breath…again. But it’s such a small part of the day. I sometimes like to compare it
to other normalities within our day. Commuting. Eating a meal. Completing a chore. This, is what I’ve found so far, is
the easiest way to fit it in.

Note – the more you are worried about people judging you about meditating, the worse you’ll be at it. The more worried
you are about achieving something from it, the worse you’ll be at it.

Try anything that comes to you. I’m at the stage where lying down with calming music on in the background works best. I
used to use guided visualisation. I’ve done it sitting upright before with success.

But overall it is humbling. Our minds are something we have very little control over yet can make us feel unstoppable.
So why not tap into that, even just a wee bit?

That’s my 3 life habits so far, touching the surface. What’s a main one I’ve missed?

I hope you enjoyed that. Share your thoughts below. I’m keen to write more about this in the future.
